= minitest-parallel_fork

minitest-parallel_fork adds fork-based parallelization to Minitest.  Each test/spec
suite is run in one of the forks, allowing this to work correctly when using
before_all/after_all/around_all hooks provided by minitest-hooks.  Using separate
processes via fork can significantly improve spec performance when using MRI,
and can work in cases where Minitest's default thread-based parallelism do not work,
such as when tests/specs modify the constant namespace.

= Installation

  gem install minitest-parallel_fork

= Source Code

Source code is available on GitHub at https://github.com/jeremyevans/minitest-parallel_fork

= Usage 

You can enable fork-based parallelism just by requiring +minitest/parallel_fork+. One easy
to do so without modifying the spec code itself is to use the +RUBYOPT+ environment variable.
So if you execute your specs using:

  rake spec

You can switch to fork-based parallelism using:

  RUBYOPT=-rminitest/parallel_fork rake spec

To control the number of forks, you can set the +NCPU+ environment variable:

  NCPU=8 RUBYOPT=-rminitest/parallel_fork rake spec

If you don't set the +NCPU+ environment variable, minitest-parallel_fork will use
4 forks by default.

= Hooks

In some cases, especially when using external databases, you'll need to do some
before fork or after fork setup.  minitest/parallel_fork supports +before_parallel_fork+
and +after_parallel_fork+ hooks.

+before_parallel_fork+ is called before any child processes are forked:

  Minitest.before_parallel_fork do
    DB.disconnect
  end

+after_parallel_fork+ is called after each child process is forked, with the number
of the child process, starting at 0:

  Minitest.after_parallel_fork do |i|
    DB.opts[:database] += (i+1).to_s
  end

The above examples show a fairly easy way to use minitest-parallel_fork with an external
database when using Sequel.  Before forking, all existing database connections are
disconnected, and after forking, the database name is changed in each child to reference
a child-specific database, so that the child processes do not share a database and are
thus independent.

== ActiveRecord

To use this with Rails/ActiveRecord, you probably want to use hooks similar to:

  Minitest.before_parallel_fork do
    ActiveRecord::Base.connection.disconnect!
  end

  Minitest.after_parallel_fork do |i|
    db_config = Rails.application.config.database_configuration[Rails.env].clone
    db_config['database'] += (i+1).to_s
    ActiveRecord::Base.establish_connection(db_config)
  end

= Speedup

The speedup you get greatly depends on your specs.  Here's some examples using Sequel's
specs:

                     2 forks         4 forks
  spec_core:      1.25x - 1.36x        1.5x   
  spec_model:     1.29x - 1.62x   1.72x - 2.02x
  spec_plugin:    1.57x - 1.76x   2.29x - 2.37x    
  spec_sqlite:    1.75x - 1.86x   2.26x - 2.65x
  spec_postgres:  1.32x - 1.40x     Untested

= License

MIT

= Author

Jeremy Evans <code@jeremyevans.net>
